README.md, before:

# jQuery Password Strength Meter for Twitter Bootstrap

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap)
[![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap/dev-status.png)](https://david-dm.org/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap#info=devDependencies)

The jQuery Password Strength Meter is a plugin for Twitter Bootstrap that
provides rulesets for visualy displaying the quality of a users typed in
password.

Dual licensed under the MIT and GPL licenses.

[jQuery plugins registry entry](http://plugins.jquery.com/pwstrength-bootstrap/)


## Requirements

* jQuery 1.7 or higher
* Bootstrap 2 or 3


## How to use it

Just invoke the plugin on the password fields you want to attach a strength
meter to. For example, to use it on all the password fields with the default
examples:

```javascript
    $(':password').pwstrength();
```

To apply it only to one input and change the options:

```javascript
    $('#passwd1').pwstrength({
        ui: { showVerdictsInsideProgressBar: true }
    });
```


## Options

The plugin expect the options to follow this structure:

```javascript
options = {
    common: {},
    rules: {},
    ui: {}
};
```

Let's see the options of each section.

### Common

* __minChar__:

  Default: `6` (Integer)

  Sets the minimum required of characters for a password to not be considered
  too weak.

* __usernameField__:

  Default: `"#username"` (String)

  The username field to match a password to, to ensure the user does not use
  the same value for their password.

* __userInputs__:

  Default: `[]` (Array)

  Array of CSS selectors for input fields with user input. The content of these
  fields will be retrieved and passed to the zxcvbn library.

  This option only takes effect when the zxcvbn library is being used. Check
  the `zxcvbn` option.

* __onLoad__:

  Default: `undefined` (Function)

  A callback function, fired on load of the widget. No arguments will be
  passed.

* __onKeyUp__:

  Default: `undefined` (Function)

  A callback function, fired on key up when the user is typing. The `keyup`
  event will be passed as first argument, and an object as second with the
  score and the verdict text and level.

  This handler will also be called when the `change` or the `onpaste` events
  happen.

* __zxcvbn__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Use the zxcvbn to calculate the password entropy and use it as the score. For
  more information about zxcvbn plase check this
  [post](https://tech.dropbox.com/2012/04/zxcvbn-realistic-password-strength-estimation/).

  If you activate this setting, then all the rules won't be applied, and all
  the options under the _Rules_ section will be ignored as well. zxcvbn will be
  used instead of the default rules engine.

  To use this option you must load the zxcvbn library file on your site. You'll
  find it at their [repository](https://github.com/lowe/zxcvbn).

* __debug__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  If true, it prints the password strength in the javascript console, so you
  can test and tune your rules settings.

### Rules

* __extra__:

  Default: `{}` (Object)

  Empty object where custom rules functions will be stored.

* __scores__:

  Default: (Object)

  ```
  {
    wordNotEmail: -100,
    wordLength: -50,
    wordSimilarToUsername: -100,
    wordSequences: -50,
    wordTwoCharacterClasses: 2,
    wordRepetitions: -25,
    wordLowercase: 1,
    wordUppercase: 3,
    wordOneNumber: 3,
    wordThreeNumbers: 5,
    wordOneSpecialChar: 3,
    wordTwoSpecialChar: 5,
    wordUpperLowerCombo: 2,
    wordLetterNumberCombo: 2,
    wordLetterNumberCharCombo: 2
  }
  ```

  Scores returned by the rules when they match. Negative values are for
  penalizations.

* __activated__:

  Default: (Object)

  ```
  {
    wordNotEmail: true,
    wordLength: true,
    wordSimilarToUsername: true,
    wordSequences: true,
    wordTwoCharacterClasses: false,
    wordRepetitions: false,
    wordLowercase: true,
    wordUppercase: true,
    wordOneNumber: true,
    wordThreeNumbers: true,
    wordOneSpecialChar: true,
    wordTwoSpecialChar: true,
    wordUpperLowerCombo: true,
    wordLetterNumberCombo: true,
    wordLetterNumberCharCombo: true
  }
  ```
  An object that sets wich validation rules are activated. By changing this
  object is possible to deactivate some validations, or to activate them for
  extra security.

* __raisePower__:

  Default: `1.4` (Double)

  The value used to modify the final score, based on the password length,
  allows you to tailor your results.

### User Interface

* __bootstrap2__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Sets if it supports legacy Bootstrap 2 (true) or the current Bootstrap 3
  (false), the progress bar html is different.

* __showProgressBar__:

  Default: `true` (Boolean)

  Displays the password strength in a progress bar.

* __showPopover__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Displays the error messages and the verdicts in a Bootstrap popover, instead
  of below the input field. Bootstrap tooltip.js and popover.js must to be
  included.

  If the `showVerdictsInsideProgressBar` option is active, then the verdicts
  won't appear on the popover.

* __showStatus__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Displays the password strength as a validation status in the password field,
  for this to work, the Bootstrap form structure must be followed.

* __spanError__:

  Default: (Function)

  ```javascript
  function (options, key) {
    var text = options.ui.errorMessages[key];
    return '<span style="color: #d52929">' + text + '</span>';
  };
  ```

  Function to generate a span with the style property set to red font color,
  used in the errors messages. Overwrite for custom styling.

* __errorMessages__:

  Default: (Object)

  ```
  {
    password_too_short: "The Password is too short",
    email_as_password: "Do not use your email as your password",
    same_as_username: "Your password cannot contain your username",
    two_character_classes: "Use different character classes",
    repeated_character: "Too many repetitions",
    sequence_found: "Your password contains sequences"
  }
  ```

  An object containing error messages. These can be overwritten for language
  purposes, and extra messages can also be added for your custom rules.

* __verdicts__:

  Default: `["Weak", "Normal", "Medium", "Strong", "Very Strong"]` (Array)

  The display names for the verdicts related to the progressClass. It has to
  have 5 elements, and they would be the 5 possible strength categories.

* __showVerdicts__:

  Default: `true` (Boolean)

  Determines if the verdicts are displayed or not.

* __showVerdictsInsideProgressBar__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Determines if the verdicts are displayed inside the progress bar or not. When
  this setting is active, the verdict viewport is ignored and they won't appear
  on the popover if it is being showed. Also this option overrides the value of
  the _showVerdicts_ one.

* __showErrors__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Determines if the error list is displayed with the progress bar or not.

* __container__:

  Default: `undefined` (CSS selector, or DOM node)

  If defined, it will be used to locate the viewports, if undefined, the parent
  of the input password will be used instead. The viewports must be children of
  this node.

* __viewports__:

  Default: (Object)

  ```
  {
    progress: undefined,
    verdict: undefined,
    errors: undefined
  }
  ```

  An object containing the viewports to use to show the elements of the
  strength meter. Each one can be a CSS selector (`"#progressbar"`) or a DOM
  node reference.

* __scores__:

  Default: `[17, 26, 40, 50]` (Array)

  The scores used to determine what progressClass and verdicts to display. It
  has to have 4 elements, which creates 5 categories of strength (the 5
  possible verdicts).

#### Example of an options object

```javascript
var options = {};
options.common = {
    minChar: 8;
};
options.rules = {
    activated: {
        wordTwoCharacterClasses: true,
        wordRepetitions: true
    }
};
options.ui = {
    showErrors: true
};
```


## Methods

Once the plugin has been initialized, it is possible to interact with it
through the methods.


### Force an update

It is possible to force an update on a password strength meter. It will force
a new score calculation and an update of the UI elements, the `onKeyUp`
callback will be called.

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("forceUpdate");
```


### Remove the strength meter

This will remove the data associated to the meter, and the UI elements.

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("destroy");
```


### Adding Custom Rules

The plugin comes with the functionality to easily define your own custom rules.
The format is as follows:

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("addRule", "ruleName", function (options, word, score) {}, rule_score, rule_enabled);
```

Example:

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("addRule", "testRule", function (options, word, score) {
    return word.match(/[a-z].[0-9]/) && score;
}, 10, true);
```


### Change the score associated to a rule

It is possible to change the score given by a rule. It works like this:

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("changeScore", "wordSequences", -100);
```

That would penalize even more the presence of sequences in the password.


### Activate and deactivate rules

It is also possible to activate or deactivate rules. It as simple as:

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("ruleActive", "wordSequences", false);
```

That would avoid looking for sequences in the password being tested.


## Callback Functions

The plugin provides two callback functions, onLoad and onKeyUp.  You can use
them like this:

```javascript
$(document).ready(function () {
    var options = {};
    options.common = {
        onLoad: function () {
            $('#messages').text('Start typing password');
        },
        onKeyUp: function (evt, data) {
            $("#length-help-text").text("Current length: " + $(evt.target).val().length + " and score: " + data.score);
        }
    };
    $(':password').pwstrength(options);
});
```


## Extra security

The plugin comes with two validation rules deactivated by default. One checks
for too many character repetitions, and the other checks the number of
character classes used. An easy way to increase the security of the passwords
is to activate this two rules:

```javascript
$(document).ready(function () {
    var options = {};
    options.rules = {
        activated: {
            wordTwoCharacterClasses: true,
            wordRepetitions: true
        }
    };
    $(':password').pwstrength(options);
});
```


## Examples

There are some examples in the `examples` directory. Just serve them with any
webserver and check them in your browser. Make sure you serve the `examples`
directory as the site root. For example:

```bash
cd examples
python -m SimpleHTTPServer
```

And go to [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000).


## Build and Test

The build and testing processes rely on [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/). To use
them you need to have [node.js](http://nodejs.org/) and grunt-cli installed on
your system. Assuming you have node.js in your Linux system, you'll need to do
something like this:

```bash
sudo npm install -g grunt-cli
```

Now you have the grunt command line utility installed globally.


### Bundle and minified

To generate the bundle and the minified file you only need to execute this in
the project directory:

```bash
npm install -d
grunt
```

It will check the source files, and build a minified version with its
corresponding source map. The generated files will be available in the `dist`
directory.


### Testing

To run the tests the only thing you need to do is execute this in the project
directory:

```bash
npm install -d
grunt test
```

It will check all the source files with [JSLint](http://jslint.com) and run the
tests, which are written with [Jasmine](http://jasmine.github.io/). You'll find
the tests source code in the `spec` directory.

[Travis](https://travis-ci.org/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap) is being
used for continuos integration. You can check there if the tests are passing.

Commit message:

Release v1.2.2
- Every rule can have associated error messages.

README.md, after:

# jQuery Password Strength Meter for Twitter Bootstrap

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap)
[![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap/dev-status.png)](https://david-dm.org/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap#info=devDependencies)

The jQuery Password Strength Meter is a plugin for Twitter Bootstrap that
provides rulesets for visualy displaying the quality of a users typed in
password.

Dual licensed under the MIT and GPL licenses.

[jQuery plugins registry entry](http://plugins.jquery.com/pwstrength-bootstrap/)


## Requirements

* jQuery 1.7 or higher
* Bootstrap 2 or 3


## How to use it

Just invoke the plugin on the password fields you want to attach a strength
meter to. For example, to use it on all the password fields with the default
examples:

```javascript
    $(':password').pwstrength();
```

To apply it only to one input and change the options:

```javascript
    $('#passwd1').pwstrength({
        ui: { showVerdictsInsideProgressBar: true }
    });
```


## Options

The plugin expect the options to follow this structure:

```javascript
options = {
    common: {},
    rules: {},
    ui: {}
};
```

Let's see the options of each section.

### Common

* __minChar__:

  Default: `6` (Integer)

  Sets the minimum required of characters for a password to not be considered
  too weak.

* __usernameField__:

  Default: `"#username"` (String)

  The username field to match a password to, to ensure the user does not use
  the same value for their password.

* __userInputs__:

  Default: `[]` (Array)

  Array of CSS selectors for input fields with user input. The content of these
  fields will be retrieved and passed to the zxcvbn library.

  This option only takes effect when the zxcvbn library is being used. Check
  the `zxcvbn` option.

* __onLoad__:

  Default: `undefined` (Function)

  A callback function, fired on load of the widget. No arguments will be
  passed.

* __onKeyUp__:

  Default: `undefined` (Function)

  A callback function, fired on key up when the user is typing. The `keyup`
  event will be passed as first argument, and an object as second with the
  score and the verdict text and level.

  This handler will also be called when the `change` or the `onpaste` events
  happen.

* __zxcvbn__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Use the zxcvbn to calculate the password entropy and use it as the score. For
  more information about zxcvbn plase check this
  [post](https://tech.dropbox.com/2012/04/zxcvbn-realistic-password-strength-estimation/).

  If you activate this setting, then all the rules won't be applied, and all
  the options under the _Rules_ section will be ignored as well. zxcvbn will be
  used instead of the default rules engine.

  To use this option you must load the zxcvbn library file on your site. You'll
  find it at their [repository](https://github.com/lowe/zxcvbn).

* __debug__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  If true, it prints the password strength in the javascript console, so you
  can test and tune your rules settings.

### Rules

* __extra__:

  Default: `{}` (Object)

  Empty object where custom rules functions will be stored.

* __scores__:

  Default: (Object)

  ```
  {
    wordNotEmail: -100,
    wordLength: -50,
    wordSimilarToUsername: -100,
    wordSequences: -50,
    wordTwoCharacterClasses: 2,
    wordRepetitions: -25,
    wordLowercase: 1,
    wordUppercase: 3,
    wordOneNumber: 3,
    wordThreeNumbers: 5,
    wordOneSpecialChar: 3,
    wordTwoSpecialChar: 5,
    wordUpperLowerCombo: 2,
    wordLetterNumberCombo: 2,
    wordLetterNumberCharCombo: 2
  }
  ```

  Scores returned by the rules when they match. Negative values are for
  penalizations.

* __activated__:

  Default: (Object)

  ```
  {
    wordNotEmail: true,
    wordLength: true,
    wordSimilarToUsername: true,
    wordSequences: true,
    wordTwoCharacterClasses: false,
    wordRepetitions: false,
    wordLowercase: true,
    wordUppercase: true,
    wordOneNumber: true,
    wordThreeNumbers: true,
    wordOneSpecialChar: true,
    wordTwoSpecialChar: true,
    wordUpperLowerCombo: true,
    wordLetterNumberCombo: true,
    wordLetterNumberCharCombo: true
  }
  ```
  An object that sets wich validation rules are activated. By changing this
  object is possible to deactivate some validations, or to activate them for
  extra security.

* __raisePower__:

  Default: `1.4` (Double)

  The value used to modify the final score, based on the password length,
  allows you to tailor your results.

### User Interface

* __bootstrap2__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Sets if it supports legacy Bootstrap 2 (true) or the current Bootstrap 3
  (false), the progress bar html is different.

* __showProgressBar__:

  Default: `true` (Boolean)

  Displays the password strength in a progress bar.

* __showPopover__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Displays the error messages and the verdicts in a Bootstrap popover, instead
  of below the input field. Bootstrap tooltip.js and popover.js must to be
  included.

  If the `showVerdictsInsideProgressBar` option is active, then the verdicts
  won't appear on the popover.

* __showStatus__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Displays the password strength as a validation status in the password field,
  for this to work, the Bootstrap form structure must be followed.

* __spanError__:

  Default: (Function)

  ```javascript
  function (options, key) {
    var text = options.ui.errorMessages[key];
    return '<span style="color: #d52929">' + text + '</span>';
  };
  ```

  Function to generate a span with the style property set to red font color,
  used in the errors messages. Overwrite for custom styling.

* __errorMessages__:

  Default: (Object)

  ```
  {
    wordLength: "Your password is too short",
    wordNotEmail: "Do not use your email as your password",
    wordSimilarToUsername: "Your password cannot contain your username",
    wordTwoCharacterClasses: "Use different character classes",
    wordRepetitions: "Too many repetitions",
    wordSequences: "Your password contains sequences"
  }
  ```

  An object containing error messages. These can be overwritten for language
  purposes, and extra messages can also be added for other rules, existing or
  custom. Use the name of the rule as key.

* __verdicts__:

  Default: `["Weak", "Normal", "Medium", "Strong", "Very Strong"]` (Array)

  The display names for the verdicts related to the progressClass. It has to
  have 5 elements, and they would be the 5 possible strength categories.

* __showVerdicts__:

  Default: `true` (Boolean)

  Determines if the verdicts are displayed or not.

* __showVerdictsInsideProgressBar__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Determines if the verdicts are displayed inside the progress bar or not. When
  this setting is active, the verdict viewport is ignored and they won't appear
  on the popover if it is being showed. Also this option overrides the value of
  the _showVerdicts_ one.

* __showErrors__:

  Default: `false` (Boolean)

  Determines if the error list is displayed with the progress bar or not.

* __container__:

  Default: `undefined` (CSS selector, or DOM node)

  If defined, it will be used to locate the viewports, if undefined, the parent
  of the input password will be used instead. The viewports must be children of
  this node.

* __viewports__:

  Default: (Object)

  ```
  {
    progress: undefined,
    verdict: undefined,
    errors: undefined
  }
  ```

  An object containing the viewports to use to show the elements of the
  strength meter. Each one can be a CSS selector (`"#progressbar"`) or a DOM
  node reference.

* __scores__:

  Default: `[17, 26, 40, 50]` (Array)

  The scores used to determine what progressClass and verdicts to display. It
  has to have 4 elements, which creates 5 categories of strength (the 5
  possible verdicts).

#### Example of an options object

```javascript
var options = {};
options.common = {
    minChar: 8;
};
options.rules = {
    activated: {
        wordTwoCharacterClasses: true,
        wordRepetitions: true
    }
};
options.ui = {
    showErrors: true
};
```


## Methods

Once the plugin has been initialized, it is possible to interact with it
through the methods.


### Force an update

It is possible to force an update on a password strength meter. It will force
a new score calculation and an update of the UI elements, the `onKeyUp`
callback will be called.

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("forceUpdate");
```


### Remove the strength meter

This will remove the data associated to the meter, and the UI elements.

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("destroy");
```


### Adding Custom Rules

The plugin comes with the functionality to easily define your own custom rules.
The format is as follows:

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("addRule", "ruleName", function (options, word, score) {}, rule_score, rule_enabled);
```

Example:

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("addRule", "testRule", function (options, word, score) {
    return word.match(/[a-z].[0-9]/) && score;
}, 10, true);
```


### Change the score associated to a rule

It is possible to change the score given by a rule. It works like this:

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("changeScore", "wordSequences", -100);
```

That would penalize even more the presence of sequences in the password.


### Activate and deactivate rules

It is also possible to activate or deactivate rules. It as simple as:

```javascript
$("#passwdfield").pwstrength("ruleActive", "wordSequences", false);
```

That would avoid looking for sequences in the password being tested.


## Callback Functions

The plugin provides two callback functions, onLoad and onKeyUp.  You can use
them like this:

```javascript
$(document).ready(function () {
    var options = {};
    options.common = {
        onLoad: function () {
            $('#messages').text('Start typing password');
        },
        onKeyUp: function (evt, data) {
            $("#length-help-text").text("Current length: " + $(evt.target).val().length + " and score: " + data.score);
        }
    };
    $(':password').pwstrength(options);
});
```


## Extra security

The plugin comes with two validation rules deactivated by default. One checks
for too many character repetitions, and the other checks the number of
character classes used. An easy way to increase the security of the passwords
is to activate this two rules:

```javascript
$(document).ready(function () {
    var options = {};
    options.rules = {
        activated: {
            wordTwoCharacterClasses: true,
            wordRepetitions: true
        }
    };
    $(':password').pwstrength(options);
});
```


## Examples

There are some examples in the `examples` directory. Just serve them with any
webserver and check them in your browser. Make sure you serve the `examples`
directory as the site root. For example:

```bash
cd examples
python -m SimpleHTTPServer
```

And go to [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000).


## Build and Test

The build and testing processes rely on [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/). To use
them you need to have [node.js](http://nodejs.org/) and grunt-cli installed on
your system. Assuming you have node.js in your Linux system, you'll need to do
something like this:

```bash
sudo npm install -g grunt-cli
```

Now you have the grunt command line utility installed globally.


### Bundle and minified

To generate the bundle and the minified file you only need to execute this in
the project directory:

```bash
npm install -d
grunt
```

It will check the source files, and build a minified version with its
corresponding source map. The generated files will be available in the `dist`
directory.


### Testing

To run the tests the only thing you need to do is execute this in the project
directory:

```bash
npm install -d
grunt test
```

It will check all the source files with [JSLint](http://jslint.com) and run the
tests, which are written with [Jasmine](http://jasmine.github.io/). You'll find
the tests source code in the `spec` directory.

[Travis](https://travis-ci.org/ablanco/jquery.pwstrength.bootstrap) is being
used for continuos integration. You can check there if the tests are passing.
